New doc :  Accessing the ROSA HCP API Server from a Different AWS Account (#647)
rh-mobb/documentation: content/rosa/cross-account-api-server/index.md

---
date: '2025-07-02'
title: Accessing the ROSA HCP API Server from a Different AWS Account
tags: ["AWS", "ROSA", "HCP"]
authors:
  - Yuhki Hanada 
---

## Introduction                         

> You can create a ROSA HCP cluster in one AWS account and configure it to allow accesss from a different AWS account using `oc` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a ROSA HCP cluster in one AWS account and configure it to allow access from a different AWS account using the `oc` command.
```

> Here, I walk through the actual AWS setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks you through the actual AWS setup.
```

![pic1](./images/pic1.png)
Note: AWS environments vary, so consider this as one possible setup.

## Prerequisites

> Assume a ROSA HCP cluster has been already deployed in AWS Account-A, and the following AWS resources are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ROSA HCP cluster has been already deployed in AWS Account-A, and the following AWS resources are available.
```

> I used ROSA HCP 4.19.0 when writing this article. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ROSA HCP 4.19.0 was used for this guide. 
```

![pic2](./images/pic2.png)

## Setup on AWS Account‑B

> This section covers steps in AWS Account-B 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section covers the steps in AWS Account-B 
```

![pic3](./images/pic3.png)

#### Prepare necessary tools on  Bastion-B 

> 1. On the EC2 bastion instance (bastion-B), install required tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the EC2 bastion instance (bastion-B), install the required tools
```

    ```
    [default]
    region = <AWS Region>

    [profile myprofile]
    role_arn = <IAM_ROLE_ARN>
    source_profile = default
    region = <AWS Region>

    ```

## Setup on AWS Account‑A

Switch to AWS Account-A, where the ROSA cluster resides
![AWS Account A](./images/pic4.png)

   

#### Register the IAM Role with ROSA

1. Run On Bastion-A (or any rosa-enabled host) to set some environmental variables.

    ```bash
    CLUSTER_NAME=$(rosa list clusters -o json | jq -r '.[0].name')
    IAM_ROLE_ARN=<role ARN from Account-B>
    rosa edit cluster -c $CLUSTER_NAME --additional-allowed-principals $IAM_ROLE_ARN
    rosa describe cluster -c $CLUSTER_NAME | grep "Additional Principals:"
    ```

1. Get the VPC Endpoint Service Name for the ROSA hosted controlplane.

    ```bash
    aws ec2 describe-vpc-endpoints \
      --query "VpcEndpoints[*].[VpcEndpointId, ServiceName]" \
      --output table
    ```
   ( Note: The service name is like `com.amazonaws.vpce.<Your AWS region>.vpce-svc-....`)

1. Fetch the API URL for ROSA Cluster

    ```bash
    rosa describe cluster -c $CLUSTER_NAME -o json | jq -r '.api.url'
    ```

>     Expect something like:` https://api.rosahcp.<id>.openshiftapps.com:443`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Expect something like: `https://api.rosahcp.<id>.openshiftapps.com:443`
```
